NMS-14633: Add alt text to Operation (pt. 2) (#5677)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/alarms/configuring-alarms.adoc

  </restriction>
</simpleType>
----

See <<deep-dive/events/event-definition.adoc#ga-events-anatomy-of-an-event, Anatomy of an event>> for more information.

== Attributes and elements

=== reduction-key

Alarmd is designed to consolidate multiple occurrences of an alarm into a single alarm.
When defining an event's `alarm-data`, the critical attribute is the `reduction-key`.
It can contain literal strings as well as references to the event's properties (fields and parameters).

> The `reduction-key` uniquely identifies a problem's signature and, as such, is used to reduce events so that only one problem is instantiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `reduction-key` uniquely identifies a problem's signature and is used to reduce events so that only one problem is instantiated.
```

      ...
      <alarm-data reduction-key="%uei%:%dpname%:%nodeid%:%interface%"
                  alarm-type="2"
                  clear-key="uei.opennms.org/nodes/interfaceDown:%dpname%:%nodeid%:%interface%" <2>
                  auto-clean="false"/>
   </event>
----
<1> The `interfaceDown` event sets a `reduction-key` that includes enough information to identify a specific interface on a specific node.
<2> The `interfaceUp` event has a `clear-key` that matches the `reduction-key` of an `interfaceDown` alarm, letting a match automatically clear the previous alarm.

=== auto-clean

The `auto-clean` attribute instructs alarmd to retain only the most recent event that has been reduced into an alarm.
For alarms that produce many events, this serves as a way to reduce the size of the most recent events in the database.

> WARNING: Do not use this feature with alarms that have pairwise correlation (matching problems with resolutions).

Reviewer: We should find out why.

> WARNING: Do not use this feature with alarms that have pairwise correlation (matching problems with resolutions).

Author: ```suggestion
WARNING: Avoid using this feature with alarms that have pairwise correlation (matching problems with resolutions).
It may delete all problem events, erasing your ability to study an alarm's history.
```

=== update-field

You can use the `update-field` element to override alarmd's default behavior, which updates some fields during reduction.

> The alarm fields that can be controlled in this way are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following alarm fields can be controlled in this way:
```

org.opennms.alarmd.newIfClearedAlarmExists = true
----

With this property set, when a repeat incident occurs and the current state of the problem's alarm is "Cleared", a new instance of the alarm is created instead of resetting the current alarm to its default severity and incrementing the counter.

.New `node-down` alarm and existing cleared alarm

> image::alarms/new_after_clear_3.png["Alarms List page displaying two alarms generated by the same node: the first is of Major severity, and the second has been cleared"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::alarms/new_after_clear_3.png["Alarms List page displaying two alarms generated by the same node: the first is of major severity, and the second has been cleared"]
```
